Teaching students how to use AI and I
need to keep track of what I'm telling
them to do so that I can get better at
telling them things like that.
Have you ever used AI?
Just sometimes, just for a question.
What are you?
What kind of what kind of questions do
you ask it?
Ask about like signs and cats and stuff.
I have a cat.
Oh,
I can see it at a cat house over there.
Or is that a dog? Yeah, three cats.
That's a lot of cats.
Uh, yes, I have 3.
I think you have some dogs too.
No, uh, three cat houses. You want a cat?
Three cat houses. Wow. Why?
Why is 3 cat houses?
Uh.
I just keep the old ones.
Got it. Did you make them?
OK,
they look like they have like some
manufacturing stuff in it.
I love making stuff.
So what I do during my sessions is I help
students come up with like what is
something you care a lot about?
Like do you have a personal goal and I
can help you form one if you don't have
one offline.
The top of your mind,
like what's something you really care
about or you really want to be able to do?
I'm not. I don't really know.
So some of the things that come to my
mind, you you can learn at like,
do you have goals around Roblox?
Do you want to be able to make your own
Roblox games?
Do you want to do you want something to
do with your friends?
Do you want to do something in school?
Do you have like some dreams about a job?
Like what kind of things?
Like what kind of things do you?
Aspire for.
I don't really have any long term goals,
I'm just enjoying myself.
Yeah,
that's about what a lot of middle
schoolers in high schoolers say.
So let's let's make one up for today.
Well, if we were to make up a goal,
what goal do you think we should do?
Should it be around Roblox?
Should it be around fairytelling cats?
What? What would be something fun for you?
Uh,
I'd like to have like 3 cats when I grow
up.
Oh, that's awesome.
And why do you want to have three cats?
I like cats a lot.
Yeah, I'm a big fan of cats too. OK,
so that's interesting.
So when it comes to cats.
I'm trying to form this into a goal for
you.
What do you think will prevent you from
having three cats or you just plan on
having three cats?
Uh, money.
Yeah, that that's true too.
So do you want to do a session on
learning how to take care of cats and
like things that cats would like?
Would that be interesting to you?
Or would you like to do one on how to
make money?
Or do you want to do one on like how to
make a game in Roblox?
Like what sounds fun for you?
Whatever you'd like to do.
And just how to take care of cats?
I think that's an awesome idea.
Let's do it. OK,
do you have ChatGPT access to ChatGPT?
Uh, let me go and get the open.
Right.
OK.
I had a cat too. Her name was Ariel.
Now I have a dog.
I love taking care of dogs,
but now I have a baby and the baby kind
of takes over precedence over the dog.
But the dog really likes the baby,
so everyone wins. OK, do you mind?
Do you mind sharing your screen?
Hm.
OK.
Oh, there's a cat. A little puppy.
They're really cute.
Uh, where do I share my screen? I see it.
The top thing in the top right corner,
there should be a black box that says
share.
I'm in teams. You got it. Awesome.
Um, OK, so um,
let's start off by just telling Chad
what's the name of your cat.
Apollo.
Say OK, so say introduce Kala to ChatGPT.
How should I?
No, I actually recommend.
Are you a or would you prefer to speak?
I'm a fast typer, yeah.
All right, we'll be fast.
I I almost always speak,
but we'll see how I guess.
You can say whatever you want to ChatGPT.
Unlike school,
like no matter what you say,
it will get it.
You can even misspell all the words and
it's fine.
So go ahead and do it in your own words.
I can tell you how to do it if you get
confused or lost, but it's OK to make.
Make mistakes on it.
So just go ahead and say however you want
to just say.
OK, to the cyber I've worked with.
Congratulations.
Mm.
A lot of kids.
This was take the entire time just to get
this far.
To respond.
Oh, listen too.
That's annoying. When they do two,
just click on one.
You don't actually need to read them both.
Mhm.
So what you notice here is that Chat GB2
is immediately trying to tell you stuff,
but you didn't even ask it a question,
right? It's kind of weird,
so go ahead and just click on response
one.
I can click it up on the top so we don't
get oh,
look at all those sort of like rag doll
guts.
OK.
How do we do that?
I haven't done this for a while.
That's so annoying.
They just show it to you.
I think there is.
You can't click on it anymore, huh?
You just have to select which one you
want to read. OK, so oh,
I've just clicked that so you don't have
to read two things,
but that's that's not available to.
So you told me you want to learn how to
take care of cats better.
So just go ahead and say that exact to
ChatGPT.
It's not going to give you a good answer,
but go ahead and tell it that.
You're fast.
Mm.
What do you think about all that?
Oh, it keeps going.
Mm.
I'm not sure these are. They're just tips.
Alright,
so go ahead and say exactly that back to
the AI and say these are just tips.
Well, I did ask for tips, so.
Yeah, well, you can still.
It doesn't care. It won't judge you.
Just say these are just tips.
Go ahead and put that in and see what
happens.
Not very aware of you that you asked for
it, but it's OK, it can actually.
OK.
So what do you think, Anthony?
I don't think it's giving like any major
tips.
This is like I've kind of heard these I.
So I can go ahead and tell. Tell that.
I think it's, uh, too broad.
Go ahead and tell that.
That's a really good way of asking that
question. You gave an example.
Giving examples is a really good way for
it to actually be able to give you really
specific answers.
Mhm.
There's so many things that you could
tell from the cat's body language.
Hmm, yeah.
I'm not sure.
What are you not sure about?
Most of these I'm like,
not actually gonna use in a scenario,
you know?
Tell her that.
OK, uh,
what it's doing is giving me like medical
tips. Uh.
Mhm.
I won like just signs, LC and cats,
not medical stuff.
Right.
I'll help you out on this one.
Be specific about what kind of things
you're looking for,
because what what happens with ChatGPT
defaults to what they think people want,
and they think most people ask about
medical stuff like my cat's sick.
How do I help it?
So like give us scenarios of kind of
things you want to know about.
Like I'd like to know about blank or I'd
like to know blank blank.
That will really help it out.
OK.
And you did that a little bit last time,
but that really helps that ChatGPT give
you the right answer.
I'm learning so much here and I had no
idea about any of this.
Hmm.
I don't really have any complaints there.
What do you think?
Yeah, yeah, that that's perfectly fine.
Was that helpful for you to understand
how, uh, how cats are communicating?
Did you learn anything here?
Uh, I learned a bit.
OK,
so now I'm gonna take it a step further
cause like, OK,
it's cool that you know about cats,
but that doesn't really help you do
anything.
Do you have anything you wanna do with
your cat?
Like, do you have any? Like,
do you want to play with your cat more?
Do you want to bond closer to your cat?
Do you want to get to know your cat
better? Like what?
How would you like to improve the
relationship with your cat?
I just like interacting with the cat
sometimes, I don't know.
OK, I think that's a great example.
So go ahead and copy rate this.
Tell him I'm a 13 year old and I want to
come up with a project that I can work on
for the next month.
To to improve how I interact with the cat.
And make sure you tell them that you're a
13 year old.
It's actually really important because it
might give you like things like like go
drive your cat to the park.
It's like you can't.
Right.
You like I don't have a car.
And ChatGP is not giving you what I think
it should, but this is fine.
Have you ever been interested in teaching
cats how to do tricks?
No.
Would that be something you want to
explore?
Not really.
And why not? I'm curious. Totally fine.
I just,
I just don't want to teach my cat tricks.
OK, fair enough. Fair enough.
What kind of things do you want to do?
What, like,
what kind of things would you want to do
if you got out of this list?
I just want to say hi to my cat sometimes.
I don't know.
Yeah, you just like saying hi.
It doesn't really matter.
You don't have any goals around your cat.
It's just nice. But OK, that's fine.
So now let's work on a different project.
What project do you want to work on?
It sounds like you kind of already have
your cat.
Do you want to get better at playing
Roblox?
Do you want to make games in Roblox?
Do you want to? What else?
What kind of things do you want to learn
about or do?
I know you got a pretty good life the way
it is. You want to practice storytelling?
We could do story writing. Well,
what's what would be interesting to you?
I don't really like storytelling.
OK, that's good to know.
What do you like?
Like games, cats, friends.
Yep.
So do you want,
do you want to learn how to make better
That's real good.
friends?
Do you want to learn how to be better at
Roblox? Or what? What? What would be?
What would be?
What would you like to do for the next 30
minutes?
What would be interesting to learn for
you?
Are you thinking?
Yeah.
Sounds good to me. Take your time.
This is a hard question.
This is stuff that school doesn't ask you
about. That's why I do it.
I want to learn about dinosaurs.
I love dinosaurs too.
So when you learn about,
you just want to know facts about
dinosaurs?
Or do you want to learn about potentially
being a paleontologist?
What do you want to learn about dinosaurs?
So I suggest starting a new chat here,
Enzo,
because right now there's all this
history about cats and it's going to talk
about cats. So go ahead and push new chat.
U in the top left corner.
Those are gonna call questions.
I got.
I'm watching.
No, she's so sweet. I've read that in my .
.. Um,
but I haven't updated my laptop since
2019.
OK.
So it's 2019, it's like what? What age?
I think we got the notifications for
updates in 2019 'cause it was far early.
Yeah, he's like,
so we're actually that update's fine.
I gave him access through Zoom to my
screen and he went in to like code in it.
I don't even know, like,
but it's not working yet, so...
I'm supposed to...
I didn't realize that they'll like log
hours with everything, because see,
she's like logged in the like
So I'm looking over the materials.
So all the time you might look me and the
time you'll meet before.
What I'm supposed to be with before at
three. I'm not supposed to be my hair.
You just need to be 4 and then you go to
get your hair done.
All three of you are getting haircuts.
So OK, so I'll just.
Elliott.
What's up?
This is my daughter Reagan. Reagan.
This is Elliott. He's like,
Hi. Hi, Reagan.
Nice to meet you all the way back there.
nice to meet you. He's like.
You, correct?
What?
Yeah,
explain to her what you do at Robots and
Pencils.
Reagan is doing all the video now for
Robots and Pencils.
Oh, very fun. I am. Um,
my job is to help people figure out how
to use AI in school. Like,
should we use AI?
How do we actually help students with AI?
Is it useful or not?
Elliott,
I know you wanted to post about South by
Southwest. I think.
I think it would be really helpful if you
Yeah, yeah.
did a short video on your excitement
because I cannot get creative resources
for anything right now.
Oh, I'm I'm partially a creative resource.
That's part of my job,
so I'm happy to help with this.
OK,
but I was thinking if you wanted to even
do a video, you know, just take yourself,
you know, talking about like, you know,
That's great.
That's a great idea. That's a great idea.
I'm really excited to represent the
pencils at South by Southwest one.
It'll go a lot further as far as
algorithm and Reagan can put it together
I I appreciate that, dude.
You're that's that's that makes a lot of
in 2 seconds for you if you've got.
sense.
OK.
If you have any extra images you wanted
to put over the video or anything,
Yeah, yeah. OK.
I'll work on that next week.
you just shoot them who.
Next week I have a lot of free time,
so that is.
Perfect.
We'll just go ahead and get that done for
you. And that way, yeah, she has,
but she's doing it in their off hours.
Oh, you guys are awesome.
Awesome.
This is so cool. I didn't know you were.
I didn't know you were doing the cents.
We're learning about Ankylosaurus right
now. What was the coolest fact you've?
What did you?
What's the coolest fact you've had about
Ankylosaurus so far? Enzo.
Uh.
We got it.
Um.
I'm kind of just, uh,
answering like any questions I have.
Oh, cool.
So you're just kind of like trying to
really understand it on a deep level. Um.
I did already know all of this though.
You already know you want.
You want a fun question that you can ask
it.
Mhm.
Well, feel free to read this. I'm curious.
Oh, look at you.
You you already know about how movement
can actually affect resource.
You're you're brilliant on this.
You know more stuff about dinosaurs than
I can.
OK.
OK,
this is what I would ask you because
you're already an expert.
You're a fast typer, a fast reader,
and you know a lot about dinosaurs.
Ask it this question.
What's something that only a professor in
dinosaurs would know about ankylosaurus?
And then it'll give you something that
most people wouldn't know.
Unless you see what it says.
So it was.
Oh.
She was really nice. I really like her.
I don't know what to do because my
laptop's not taking that update.
I'll keep you updated.
Where'd you learn there?
Not much. I feel like.
I feel like it builds up to a point that,
You already knew nothing.
like, doesn't come.
I don't even get to that.
Actually I'm gonna give you a really
advanced.
This is so like cause you know so much
about Anklia.
So I'm gonna give you like the professor
level of what to ask. What is a?
So go ahead and delete this cause you're
gonna already know the answer to this one
too. What is a recent publication?
Um, wait,
you actually have to say even a new what
is the recent peer reviewed publication?
Say peer reviewed.
Do you know what peer reviewed means?
It means that it's like the professors
think it's good.
That is popular over an anklysaurus that
is that's quite popular.
You don't have to put the popular.
That's fine. That question will be good.
I'm curious what it'll say about this
because now what you're doing is you
OK.
already know enough stuff like ChatGPT is
just giving you the basis,
but you already know the basis.
Let's go do something that you don't know
about.
Oh, cool.
Now I'm excited about this stuff.
I had no idea they wrote papers about
dinosaurs.
Oh wow,
this stuff hasn't even come out yet.
What did you think about these ones?
Uh.
It just explains so Ankylosaurus could,
like,
fight each other with their tails over
mating roots.
Mm-hmm.
Did you know all these things as well?
Uh, most of it.
I know that some of those are not true
because they just discovered it this year.
Did you see that?
Like some of this stuff is just they just
discovered it in like last year if you go
up again.
To also go to that 2025 Nature.
That's actually the top research journal
in the world.
Uh.
Hmm.
Are you curious?
Would you like to read more about that or
is it that's just enough for you?
That's it.
You don't care much more about it than
that.
Let me show you.
Well, these are tracers outside wills.
And did you already know this one or is
it something you're just looking into
again?
Oh, I was looking into this.
What did you learn here?
Um.
It's saying that Triceratops didn't have
quills.
I saw a recent study that might have had
some, so.
Don't tell it that.
Tell it that you actually found a study
that it might have had someone ask it to
compare the two.
'Cause you know it only if if it was
recent, it might not even be in the model.
It might not even know that that's a
thing it can do.
Ask it to Can you find it and share it?
Do you know where that article came from?
Could you find it?
I'm really curious to see what Chachi PT
thinks about it.
It thinks that is fake.
Oh, what do you think?
Do you think it's fake or not?
I'm not sure.
Mhm.
I was gonna say for about whatever.
Mhm.
All right,
because we're running out of time,
I'm gonna actually suggest something else.
I think it was really cool. Enzo,
you use AEI better than almost anyone
I've worked with, so I'm really impressed.
Just so you know,
you're really good at asking questions
and being curious and going into the
facts. It's really cool how you do it.
So I want to support you in doing that in
the future,
Hmm.
cause like I can kind of tell you just
like learning facts is fun for you.
Like that's a cool thing to do,
especially about tennis.
I'm having fun just reading about the
stuff you're reading about.
So let's open up a new chat,
but please don't delete this cause what I
want you to do is send it to me because I
think it's really cool how you.
Did it.
And what I want you to ask is I really
like learning about dinosaurs.
I'm only 13.
How can I get better at understanding
facts as if I were a professor in college?
Because you're almost there and I wanna
push you to get to that part.
What did you say?
As if I was a professor in college,
because other like the top dinosaur
people are those professors in college.
I gave you a lot of stuff.
Any of that stuff interesting to you?
The Ankylosaurus had very stubby legs
because it needed a low build to like
have its armor supported.
Didn't want to get flipped over.
That's why I said you're already thinking
like a college level.
I said those are the kind of things that
college people think about.
But I want to push you further.
So like of all these activities you want
to do like that I've listed off,
are any of those interesting to you? Like,
let's go through them and like kind of
discuss which one is the most interesting.
How dinosaurs were built.
Not the questions.
You're very good at the questions.
What I'm looking at is the activities to
get smarter and to learn deeper and
harder facts. So we can visit museums.
We could read content.
Let's just go from the beginning.
You want to read off the bold points at
the top for me on each one.
I I just watch YouTube videos.
This book right here, it suggests,
is called The Rise and Fall of Dinosaurs
by Steve Busatti.
Have you ever heard about it?
Uh, I've heard the name.
Um, do you like reading books?
Do you read books at all?
Uh, sometimes not really.
OK, So what I'm gonna do,
I'm gonna buy you this book.
But all right, if I buy you the book,
you have to give it a try and try to read
Yeah.
it. Is that a good deal?
No deal. Uh, don't buy me.
No, yeah.
If you read this book,
the thing you're going to know about
dinosaurs are going to be smarter,
and you'll actually know more about them
than that's actually in ChatGPT.
So you'll actually know the fact,
Mm.
the deeper fact about it.
Does that make sense?
I'm just saying I'm not gonna read it.
I'm just being honest. Don't buy me it.
Because you don't like reading books.
No.
You like watching YouTube videos?
What about audio books?
Yes.
I don't like audio books like it's worse
than regular books.
Even.
Yeah, I'm the same way.
So let's go through the other ones and
see if there's any other activities you
have,
'cause that book is really gonna show you
things like the facts that you can't get
in Chester PD,
but let's see if there's any other
activities here that you like.
Let's go back up to the top,
if you don't mind. Oh wait,
go back to the previous chat.
So that's perfectly fine if you don't
like reading books.
So the things it's trying to explain to
you is like,
there's things that can make it so you
can understand dinosaurs better.
It's like understand these complex things
about how fossils get formed,
time periods, evolution, et cetera.
So let's go down to the number two.
I'll tell you what kind of sources
college students use. Oh, there you go.
If you like watching YouTube videos,
they have entire college lectures on
paleontology.
Would that be something you wanna watch?
So that's like YouTube videos for smart
I I already watched these.
people.
You already watch all the university
lectures? That's really impressive.
Have you watched?
Have you watched the channel Benji Thomas,
Oh.
PBS Eons and Royal Tyrell Museum?
I don't really pay attention to the name,
I just click a video.
OK,
so I want you to copy those three and
look those up on YouTube.
So those are gonna be better than the
ones that are typical.
And let me know how you think.
You might not think they're as good.
That might that might be really helpful
for you.
The secret here is thinking like a
scientist.
That's what's really hard about
understanding some of these more complex
videos. So let's go down to this one.
Let's see if it has suggestions how to
think like a scientist.
Kee going down.
All right, we can keep going down.
Learn vocabulary.
The vocabulary and builds are the most
interesting to me.
And why are those? Why?
Why is the vocabulary interesting to you?
They like go the in-depth amount I want.
I don't want like a full research
document.
Yeah,
you just wanna like kind of know the the
surface level of it. That makes sense.
Go back up. They had a magazine. Have you?
Well, I know you don't like to read. Oh,
Coursera has free paleontology courses.
Have you taken the Coursera paleontology
course?
No.
OK,
I'll send it to your mom for something.
So like, do you know what Coursera is?
No.
So Coursera is like school for adults.
So it's like your online school,
but it's actually classes that are more
fun. Basically, they actually teach you.
What do you think about online school?
Uh, it's pretty good.
OK, I'll send this over to you.
But anyways,
you can actually take college level
courses on paleontology.
Do you want to learn about ancient marine
reptiles? Paleobiology?
Well,
I I I don't want to take courses on
Um.
reptiles. As I said,
I just mainly watch YouTube videos.
Got it. That makes sense.
OK,
I'm gonna send this and and what's the
difference between YouTube videos and the
courses for you?
I get to just play them on the side while
I play my game.
Yeah, that makes a lot of sense.
That makes a lot of sense to me.
I I would do the same thing. In fact,
I actually do do the same thing.
I'm learning Spanish while I play video
games, so I'm deeply well aware of that.
That's awesome. Well,
and that we're running out of time.
Was there anything else?
What was the most helpful thing or what
was the coolest thing that?
You did today for you.
The ankylosaurus defense and behaviors.
He thought that was interesting.
And do you do you usually use ChatGPT to
learn the effects or no?
No, I use YouTube.
And what was the difference between using
ChatGPT and using YouTube for you?
I think YouTube can like really go very
in depth like overtime.
I think ChatGPT you have to give very
specific responses so you can like.
Get out of surface level stuff.
Yeah,
I think that's what we discovered with
you.
Enzo is that you're actually too smart
for normal ChatGPT cause ChatGPT gives
the basic thing for people who don't know
anything about it.
But you know a lot about this stuff.
And so like what we learned here is if
you say things like what do professors
know, what are scientific publications?
Can you give me?
I like you came up with this one.
Can you give me a Fact Check and think
about the research about whether this is
true or not?
Did you see how that was able to get you
information that just normal ChatGPT
search wouldn't give you?
It's kind of cool.
I thought that was really cool how you
Yeah.
did that and you kind of already knew how
to do it.
I just had to nudge you that way because
what you'll find.
And I'm a guy who knows a lot about some
materials too. Not dinosaurs.
I learned a lot about dinosaurs today is
the YouTube videos are not going to be as
in-depth. They're going to be.
There's actually going to be stuff that
you just can't learn in a YouTube video
because it doesn't talk as much.
Like the things I'm an expert in.
I actually make the YouTube videos
because no one knows.
It as well as I do,
and I want you to get to that stage where
you're like so brilliant and understand
it so much that you can make your own
YouTube videos.
Does that sound kind of fun making
YouTube videos someday?
Uh.
I mean, we'll see right now.
You just want to play Roblox.
If you don't like to be on camera,
you can always do a podcast.
Actually, you don't like that.
I don't like I I hate podcast. Jesus.
You know what?
You know what you might actually want to
do, and I I actually do this now.
You can actually use AI to make your
podcast for you so you don't even have to
talk.
So you can actually just tell the A I
what to talk and give it the pictures and
Oh.
I'll just make the thing for you.
So that's actually what I do.
But one of the students I tutored as a
what is it a what is it a podcast.
But I think,
but I think you have a lot of really cool
potential.
What I really wanted to get out of the
sense of more than anything is that
you're super smart, you're super curious,
but you're not only going to learn so
much from.
From YouTube.
So I really want to make it so you can
learn as much as you want and so
hopefully this is helpful.
And if you ever have any questions that
you want,
like if you're trying to figure out
something and ChatGPT is not working,
feel free to reach out.
Your mom knows how to get ahold of me
Oh.
very fast.
Awesome. Well,
what are you going to do the rest of the
day? No, it's the work.
Play games. Finish my school day.
All right. Awesome. Well,
I really appreciate it. Thank you, Enzo.
Thank you, Elliott. So sweet.
Oh, can you do me a favor, Enzo?
I know you like to delete your chats,
which is smart.
Can you copy this the the chats you had
and then e-mail them to me or message
them to me?
Your mom can help out with that process.
Yeah,
just leave them in there and then I can
delete them afterwards if you want.
Mm-hmm.
'Cause then you asked really,
really good questions and I think they're
really good examples.
I want other people to see so.
Awesome. Well,
have a good rest of the day. Thanks guys.
See ya.
I.